Recollections of Alwyn Jackson
My grandfather told me about coming from Wales as a child.
The family landed in New York City in 1900 and came across to Seattle by train with four children ages from six to fourteen years.
It took seven days.
Before they left Wales, the family was told horror stories about the cowboys and the Indians in the West.
When the train was a day out of Chicago, five cowboys came on which made them uneasy.
My great-grandmother told the children to stop staring and be quiet, speaking in Welsh.
One of the cowboys turned round and looked at her.
After a while the parents started the children singing, which they had been doing on other trains,
and everybody liked to hear them singing because each of them sang well.
One of the cowboys turned round and got up and walked towards them, and of course they were scared.
When they looked up at him, there were tears running down his cheeks.
He said in Welsh,
Don't be afraid because I'm from Wales.
I left Wales seven years ago and that's the most beautiful music I've heard since I left there.
My grandmother started talking to him and she found out that he had not been writing home,
so she told him he'd better write home to his mother and tell her that he was all right.
The first Indians they saw were when they got off the train at Auburn.